[Music]
in this video we're going to take a look
at a Kotlin feature called string
templates now I've deleted some of the
code we added before so that the file is
a bit cleaner and now let's do something
that we typically do in Java and that is
overwrite the string method because if
we print employee one now and we run
we'll see that we just get the instance
reference and that's usually not what we
want when we were printing the employee
we want a nice string telling us the
contents of the instance so typically in
Java will overwrite the two string
method and we do the same thing in
Kotlin now we could type out the
function definition but we could also
have IntelliJ generate the two string
overwrite for us by right-clicking going
to generate and then I'm going to select
two string and I want to include both
property values in the string so I'm
going to keep both of those selected and
we'll see what IntelliJ has done here it
has generated the following two string
and you'll notice that it's using these
dollar values in here now I'm actually
going to delete the two single quotes
because I find that that can make things
a little bit confusing they usually put
single quotes around string values so
let's run and see what we get now when
we print the employee and you'll see
that we get a nice string now we get
employee which is right here name equals
Lynne Smith and ID equals 500 so
essentially what's happening with these
dollar signs is the value of the
variable is being substituted into the
string and that's really convenient you
know it's much better than having to use
string concatenation or even the format
method string dot format where you have
to have all the substitution variables
in there this is what's known as a
string template and it's generated for
you by IntelliJ in this case but of
course you can just use dollar sign
wherever you like whenever you want to
print the value of a variable within a
string okay so let's take a look at
using the dollar sign within a string
template in a bit more detail so we'll
go up here and we'll declare a Val Val
cult change then we'll assign it the
value of four dollars and 22 cents and
then let's say we want it to print out
to display the value of change you use
dollar change how could we do that
because the moment we put dollar change
within a string the value of change is
going to be substituted rather than the
literal dollar change being printed so
how do we prevent the value from being
substituted when we want to use a dollar
sign in front of a string that just
happens to match a variable name and the
way to do that of course is to escape
the dollar sign so we do something like
print line just to show the value of
change we use and here we have to skip
the dollar sign dollar change because if
we don't escape the dollar sign here
it'll actually print out the value of
change so for example if we do this and
then we run we'll see the show is the
value of change we use for point two two
and that's not what we want we want
dollar change here so if we escape the
dollar sign and run again we'll see that
now we get to show the value of change
we use dollar change so if you ever run
into a situation where you want to use a
string template a substitution value and
you also want to print the name of a
variable within the string rather than
the value this is the way you do it if
you're going to precede the name with a
dollar sign
okay now note that Kotlin is smart
enough to do stuff like this so if we
don't escape it now because we want the
value of change and we want a dollar
sign in front Kotlin smart enough to
recognize that oh okay well this is just
a regular dollar sign but from this
point forward you're actually using a
string substitution value so if we run
we'll see that we get to show the value
of change we use four dollars and 22
cents that doesn't make sense but that's
what it is
we'd probably instead say something like
your change is and in this case we use
dollar change so if we run we'll see
your changes four dollars and 22 cents
now of course if you just want to print
out a dollar sign you don't have to do
anything special you just you know have
the dollar sign in there if there's
nothing following the dollar sign the
Kotler that's going to understand what
you want so here we can see your change
is and we just have the dollar sign so
that's already very powerful I mean you
can substitute in variable values
without having to use concatenation or
without having to use a method like
string dot format but string templates
are even more powerful than that because
you can actually substitute in the
results of expressions so let's give
that a try let's add another variable
called numerator and we'll assign it a
value of ten point nine nine and then
we'll have another variable called
denominator and we'll assign that the
value of twenty point zero zero and now
we can actually just print line the
result of this expression by using a
string template so the value of
numerator divided by the NAM in the tour
that's a hard one to spell is now when
you're going to substitute the value of
an expression you have to start with a
dollar sign and then you have to enclose
the value of the expression between
curly braces so that's what we're doing
now so we want to enclose numerator over
denominator so if we run we'll see the
value of ten point nine nine divided by
twenty point zero is zero point five
four nine five so we can also substitute
in expressions one little point here
that all all raised before we leave
store
templates is when you reference a
property value from outside the class
that's considered to be an expression so
if we want it to do something like print
line the employees ID is and we want to
substitute in employee ones ID
we can't go like this you'll notice that
the second part of this is in green
which means this is part of the string
we have to enclose this within curly
braces and now will actually print
employee ones ID if we run will see the
employees ID is five hundred and that's
true we've set employee ones ID to five
hundred up here so that's it for string
templates it's a really cool feature in
Kotlin that I think you're going to use
a lot because we're often concatenated
string values together or using string
dot format and you no longer have to do
that you can just substitute the values
in I'll see you in the next video